ACCS-366: My Account: Stored payment methods page (#816)
commerce-docs/microsite-commerce-storefront: src/content/docs/dropins/user-account/tutorials/payment-services-my-account.mdx

---
title: Payment Services stored methods in My Account
description: Surface Adobe Payment Services vaulted cards on My Account by adding a block that renders the User Account PaymentMethods container.
---

import Link from '@components/Link.astro';
import { Aside } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

> Shoppers who **save a card with Payment Services** during checkout can see and remove those vaulted methods on a **My Account** page (removal uses a **confirmation** step before the token is deleted—see [Remove confirmation](/dropins/user-account/containers/payment-methods/#remove-confirmation)). The Commerce boilerplate does **not** include a payment-methods block out of the box—**this tutorial** shows how to add one yourself (for example a **`commerce-payment-methods`** block) that renders the User Account [PaymentMethods](/dropins/user-account/containers/payment-methods/) container. That container loads tokens with the same GraphQL **`customerPaymentTokens`** query used for vault data elsewhere—so what was vaulted through Payment Services appears here when the shopper is signed in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Shoppers who save a card with Payment Services during checkout can see and remove those vaulted methods on a **My Account** page. Removal uses a confirmation step before the token is deleted—see [Remove confirmation](/dropins/user-account/containers/payment-methods/#remove-confirmation). The Commerce boilerplate does **not** include a payment-methods block out of the box. This tutorial shows how to add one yourself (for example a `commerce-payment-methods` block) that renders the User Account [PaymentMethods](/dropins/user-account/containers/payment-methods/) container. That container loads tokens with the same GraphQL `customerPaymentTokens` query used for vault data elsewhere. What was vaulted through Payment Services appears here when the shopper is signed in.
```

> This page is **Payment Services–specific**: it assumes vaulting is enabled for your Payment Services integration and focuses on wiring the account experience with a small custom block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page is Payment Services–specific: it assumes vaulting is enabled for your Payment Services integration and focuses on wiring the account experience with a small custom block.
```

## Prerequisites

- **Payment Services** is <Link href="https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/commerce/payment-services/get-started/onboard" text="onboarded" /> and the <Link href="/dropins/payment-services/installation/" text="Payment Services drop-in" /> meets version requirements for your storefront.
- **Save / vault** is available for your payment flow (see Adobe’s <Link href="https://developer.adobe.com/commerce/webapi/graphql/payment-services-extension/workflows/vaulted-card/" text="vaulted card workflow" /> for how tokens are created at checkout).

> - Checkout (or another flow) already initializes Payment Services where shoppers vault cards—for example the boilerplate <Link href="https://github.com/hlxsites/aem-boilerplate-commerce/blob/main/blocks/commerce-checkout/commerce-checkout.js" text="commerce-checkout" /> loads <Link href="https://github.com/hlxsites/aem-boilerplate-commerce/blob/main/scripts/initializers/payment-services.js" text="payment-services.js" />.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Checkout (or another flow) already initializes Payment Services where shoppers vault cards. For example, the boilerplate <Link href="https://github.com/hlxsites/aem-boilerplate-commerce/blob/main/blocks/commerce-checkout/commerce-checkout.js" text="commerce-checkout" /> loads <Link href="https://github.com/hlxsites/aem-boilerplate-commerce/blob/main/scripts/initializers/payment-services.js" text="payment-services.js" />.
```

- Account pages run the **account** initializer so GraphQL calls use the customer token. Import <Link href="https://github.com/hlxsites/aem-boilerplate-commerce/blob/main/scripts/initializers/account.js" text="scripts/initializers/account.js" /> (or your equivalent) before rendering the container.

## Add a payment methods block

> Create a block (naming is up to you; **`commerce-payment-methods`** is a clear convention) that:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a block. The naming is up to you, but `commerce-payment-methods` is a clear convention. This block should:
```

> 1. Redirects **guests** to login (same pattern as other account blocks).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Redirect **guests** to login (same pattern as other account blocks).
```

> 2. Initializes the **User Account** drop-in via `account.js`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Initialize the **User Account** drop-in via `account.js`.
```

> 3. Renders **PaymentMethods** with optional **with header** and **minified view** from block configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Render **PaymentMethods** with optional **with header** and **minified view** from the block configuration.
```

Example `decorate` implementation:

```javascript
import { PaymentMethods } from '@dropins/storefront-account/containers/PaymentMethods.js';
import { render as accountRenderer } from '@dropins/storefront-account/render.js';
import { readBlockConfig } from '../../scripts/aem.js';
import {
  CUSTOMER_LOGIN_PATH,
  checkIsAuthenticated,
  rootLink,
} from '../../scripts/commerce.js';

import '../../scripts/initializers/account.js';

export default async function decorate(block) {
  const {
    'minified-view': minifiedViewConfig = 'false',
    'with-header': withHeaderConfig = 'true',
  } = readBlockConfig(block);

  if (!checkIsAuthenticated()) {
    window.location.href = rootLink(CUSTOMER_LOGIN_PATH);
  } else {
    await accountRenderer.render(PaymentMethods, {
      withHeader: withHeaderConfig === 'true',
      minifiedView: minifiedViewConfig === 'true',
    })(block);
  }
}
```

> Place the block on the account page (or section) where you want the list. Follow the same **section metadata**, **block registration**, and **`readBlockConfig`** patterns as your other commerce blocks (for example customer information or orders).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Place the block on the account page (or desired section) where the list should appear. Use the same section metadata, block registration, and readBlockConfig patterns as other commerce blocks (for example, customer info or orders).
```

## Block configuration (authoring)

> Expose authoring keys that map into `readBlockConfig` in `decorate`, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expose authoring keys in `decorate` that map to `readBlockConfig`. For example:
```

> - **`with-header`** — Section title and divider for the payments region (full account pages often leave this on).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `with-header` — Controls whether a section title and divider are shown for the payments area (full account pages often omit this).
```

> - **`minified-view`** — Compact rows and empty state for dashboards next to other widgets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`minified-view`** — Enables a compact layout with condensed rows and a simplified empty state, ideal for dashboards alongside other widgets.
```

Add a `_your-block-name.json` (and optional README) next to the block source so authors get defaults and labels consistent with the rest of your project.

## Limit the list to Payment Services tokens (optional)

> Vault tokens include a **`payment_method_code`**. Payment Services methods typically use codes that **start with** `payment_services` (for example hosted-field variants). The **PaymentMethods** container accepts **`filterPaymentMethodCodes`**: an array of strings; a token is shown if its code **equals** or **starts with** any entry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vault tokens include a `payment_method_code`. Payment Services methods typically use codes that start with `payment_services` (for example, hosted-field variants). The PaymentMethods container accepts `filterPaymentMethodCodes`: an array of strings. A token is shown if its code equals or starts with any entry.
```

> The example `decorate` above does not pass this prop. To show only Payment Services–vaulted rows (and hide other gateways’ saved methods), add it to the `render` call—for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example decorate above doesn’t include this prop. To display only Payment Services–vaulted methods (and hide saved methods from other gateways), add it to the render call. For example:
```

```javascript
await accountRenderer.render(PaymentMethods, {
  withHeader: withHeaderConfig === 'true',
  minifiedView: minifiedViewConfig === 'true',
  filterPaymentMethodCodes: ['payment_services'],
})(block);
```

> Adjust the prefix list if your Admin / integration uses a different method code pattern.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adjust the prefix list if your Admin or integration uses a different payment method code pattern.
```

## How data reaches the UI

> - By default the container calls **`getCustomerPaymentTokens`**, which runs the **`customerPaymentTokens`** query and maps vault **details** JSON (including Payment Services **brand** / **last four** style fields) into rows for **PaymentCard**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- By default, the container calls `getCustomerPaymentTokens`, which executes the `customerPaymentTokens` query and transforms the returned vault details (JSON) into rows for the PaymentCard component. The details include Payment Services fields like brand and last four digits.
```

- If another part of the page already has token rows on the client, you can emit **`account/customerPaymentTokens`** on the event bus so the container **shows that list** without an extra **`getCustomerPaymentTokens`** round trip (see [Events](/dropins/user-account/events/#accountcustomerpaymenttokens-listens) and [TypeScript declaration](/dropins/user-account/events/#typescript-declaration)). That is optional injection only; **Remove** still calls **`deletePaymentToken`** on the GraphQL API, not the bus. Payment Services + GraphQL alone is the usual path for My Account.

## Related documentation

- [PaymentMethods container](/dropins/user-account/containers/payment-methods/) — props, GraphQL vs bus, and errors.
- [User Account functions](/dropins/user-account/functions/) — **`getCustomerPaymentTokens`**, **`deletePaymentToken`**.
- [Payment Services installation](/dropins/payment-services/installation/) and [initialization](/dropins/payment-services/initialization/).
- Checkout: [Add payment method](/dropins/checkout/tutorials/add-payment-method/) when customizing how cards are vaulted at purchase time.

<Aside type="caution" title="PCI and SDK UI">

> Payment card entry at checkout stays inside the **Payment Services** drop-in / SDK for PCI boundaries. **My Account** only **lists and removes** tokens already stored on the customer; it does not replace the hosted card form at checkout.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Payment card entry at checkout remains within the Payment Services drop-in/SDK to maintain PCI compliance. My Account only lists and removes existing saved tokens—it does not replace the hosted card form used during checkout.
```
